README.md, before:

# HighDesertInstitute.org
Our public website


The idea is to start by recreating the structure of the previous website, and then point the DNS servers to this new static version so that anyone can submit edits or updates or new pages related to the projects they're working on. And then the website can become a shared repository of all the projects we are working on, where we can all help each other and anyone in the world can contribute to the work.

This website is not yet live at [highdesertinstitute.org](https://highdesertinstitute.org). It is currently only live at [new.highdesertinstitute.org/](https://new.highdesertinstitute.org//).


## Some notes on how Jekyll works and how to edit pages...

For any directory in this repository, there should be an index.md. This file can be [edited as markdown](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax). You can preview your changes in the preview tab, or edit the file locally on your machine before submitting a pull request. A member of the team will then review and approve your changes before they go live on the main public site.

There should also be a readme.md which contains devops details such as what you're reading now. This information is not necessary of helpful on the public website; only for people who are editing the public website.

If you would like to help with the process of reviewing pull requests, please reach out to CJ in the DevOps channel of the discord.


## Recommended Editing Setup

- Download github desktop for free. This allows you to stage your changes and submit them all at once.
- Download vs code to edit the pages. This has good integration for copilot which will help a lot for debugging and completions.

TODO put together a good self-hosted, open-source alternative set of recommendations running completions with something like QwQ-32b instead.

Commit message:

Added scope of work recommendations

README.md, after:

# HighDesertInstitute.org
Our public website


The idea is to start by recreating the structure of the previous website, and then point the DNS servers to this new static version so that anyone can submit edits or updates or new pages related to the projects they're working on. And then the website can become a shared repository of all the projects we are working on, where we can all help each other and anyone in the world can contribute to the work.

This website is not yet live at [highdesertinstitute.org](https://highdesertinstitute.org). It is currently only live at [new.highdesertinstitute.org/](https://new.highdesertinstitute.org//).


## Some notes on how Jekyll works and how to edit pages...

For any directory in this repository, there should be an index.md. This file can be [edited as markdown](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/basic-writing-and-formatting-syntax). You can preview your changes in the preview tab, or edit the file locally on your machine before submitting a pull request. A member of the team will then review and approve your changes before they go live on the main public site.

There should also be a readme.md which contains devops details such as what you're reading now. This information is not necessary of helpful on the public website; only for people who are editing the public website.

If you would like to help with the process of reviewing pull requests, please reach out to CJ in the DevOps channel of the discord.

## IMPORTANT: Scope of Work

In general, changes to the home page, global css files, and the pages that list sub-pages (/blog, /outposts, /guilds, etc) are off limits unless there is some compelling reason to change them. It's important to maintain a consistent look and feel across the site. Think of these as the root scope; the board's section of the website. 

If you are working on a guild or one of it's projects, feel free to make any changes the guild wants to the pages in its section of the website. It's fine to use a different template or layout for your pages if that's what your group agrees to. Remember that you need to discuss changes with your project colleagues before requesting to make them.

If you are part of a Cyberpony Express Node site, feel free to edit or create subpages within the directory for that site. Remember that you need to discuss changes with the other people working on that site before requesting to make them.

No matter what scope you're working under, other people are working there too. Any changes need to be socialized and consensus built with your colleageues before the changes are made. This doesn't mean you need an internal review of every tweak and change, but no one who's working with you on your project should be surprised to hear that you've submitted a pull request.

The exception to these rules is for any factual errors or inconsistencies. If you notice something that is incorrect, please request to change it. Make sure to include details about what the error is and why you think it should be changed. If you are not sure if something is correct, please ask in the DevOps channel of the discord or wherever appropriate.


## Recommended Editing Setup

- Download github desktop for free. This allows you to stage your changes and submit them all at once.
- Download vs code to edit the pages. This has good integration for copilot which will help a lot for debugging and completions.

TODO put together a good self-hosted, open-source alternative set of recommendations running completions with something like QwQ-32b instead.
