guilds/lorekeepers/cyberpony-express/index.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Cyberpony Express
---

## [Lorekeepers' Guild](/guilds/lorekeepers/) - [Cyberpony Express](/guilds/lorekeepers/cyberpony-express/)

<img src="/assets/images/cyberpony-express.jpg" alt="The Cyberpony Express" class="photo">

The Cyberpony Express is a free, encrypted, public mesh network based on Meshtastic. It is designed to be a free, open-source, digital postal service for the people. The idea is to create a network of nodes that can send and receive messages, files, and other data without relying on traditional internet infrastructure.


## Current Projects Include

- [Operating Nodes](/guilds/lorekeepers/cyberpony-express/nodes/) - A list/map of the nodes we've currently deployed. Includes links to the socials, website, gofundme, contact info, etc for the place where the node is hosted.
- [Deploying New Nodes](https://forms.gle/UZgQiUNzm8q1dmNfA) - A project to deploy nodes in the wild and test the network. This is what the GoFundMe pays for.
- [BBS](/guilds/lorekeepers/cyberpony-express/bbs/) - A simple, dumb system that works like a phone operator. It can send and receive messages with users, solve the backhaul problem of long-distance messaging between distant parts of the network, enable access to MUDs and chatbots like the Librarian, and provide a framework for extending the functionality of the Cyberpony Express in the future.


## Workshops!

### 2025-03-20 - Meet and Greet!

[Text summary of the first workshop.](/blog/2025-03-19/) 


### 2025-03-27 - Meshtastic Hardware Strategy and Development 

[Text summary of the second workshop.](/blog/2025-03-27-meshtastic-hardware-strategy-development/)  

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/1Sw1WCDngTA?si=2bLo_iF1MKjQO0kG" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>


### 2025-04-03 - Siting and Outreach

[Text summary of the third workshop.](/blog/2025-04-03/)

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/zCB9deVyMq8?si=g343O4FyGhktcBZY" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>


### 2025-04-10 - BBS/Librarian

[Text summary of the fourth workshop.](https://highdesertinstitute.org/guilds/lorekeepers/cyberpony-express/bbs/)

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/3gRCj5V-8wc?si=x9lYCh9Qg6KwmHE5" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>


### 2025-04-16 - Opsec in AI and Meshtastic

[Text summary of the fifth workshop.](https://highdesertinstitute.org/blog/2025-04-16-opsec-ai-meshtastic/)

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/z5k--VjGQjA?si=V5tZ3E881doqj-zA" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>


## Build Lists!

- [Build List v0.1](/guilds/lorekeepers/cyberpony-express/build-list-v0.1)


## Useful Tools

- [Flash Your Firmware From The Web](https://flasher.meshtastic.org/) Requires chrome!
- [Plan Your Mesh](https://site.meshtastic.org/)


---

[← Back to Lorekeepers' Guild](/guilds/lorekeepers)  
[← Back to All Guilds](/guilds/)  
[← Back to Home](/)

Commit message:

Add Flying Robots project page

guilds/lorekeepers/cyberpony-express/index.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Cyberpony Express
---

## [Lorekeepers' Guild](/guilds/lorekeepers/) - [Cyberpony Express](/guilds/lorekeepers/cyberpony-express/)

<img src="/assets/images/cyberpony-express.jpg" alt="The Cyberpony Express" class="photo">

The Cyberpony Express is a free, encrypted, public mesh network based on Meshtastic. It is designed to be a free, open-source, digital postal service for the people. The idea is to create a network of nodes that can send and receive messages, files, and other data without relying on traditional internet infrastructure.


## Current Projects Include

- [Operating Nodes](/guilds/lorekeepers/cyberpony-express/nodes/) - A list/map of the nodes we've currently deployed. Includes links to the socials, website, gofundme, contact info, etc for the place where the node is hosted.
- [Deploying New Nodes](https://forms.gle/UZgQiUNzm8q1dmNfA) - A project to deploy nodes in the wild and test the network. This is what the GoFundMe pays for.
- [BBS](/guilds/lorekeepers/cyberpony-express/bbs/) - A simple, dumb system that works like a phone operator. It can send and receive messages with users, solve the backhaul problem of long-distance messaging between distant parts of the network, enable access to MUDs and chatbots like the Librarian, and provide a framework for extending the functionality of the Cyberpony Express in the future.
- [Flying Robots](/guilds/lorekeepers/cyberpony-express/flying-robots/) - Low-cost quadcopters coordinated over the mesh to handle tasks like observation, pest deterrence, and deliveries.


## Workshops!

### 2025-03-20 - Meet and Greet!

[Text summary of the first workshop.](/blog/2025-03-19/) 


### 2025-03-27 - Meshtastic Hardware Strategy and Development 

[Text summary of the second workshop.](/blog/2025-03-27-meshtastic-hardware-strategy-development/)  

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/1Sw1WCDngTA?si=2bLo_iF1MKjQO0kG" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>


### 2025-04-03 - Siting and Outreach

[Text summary of the third workshop.](/blog/2025-04-03/)

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/zCB9deVyMq8?si=g343O4FyGhktcBZY" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>


### 2025-04-10 - BBS/Librarian

[Text summary of the fourth workshop.](https://highdesertinstitute.org/guilds/lorekeepers/cyberpony-express/bbs/)

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/3gRCj5V-8wc?si=x9lYCh9Qg6KwmHE5" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>


### 2025-04-16 - Opsec in AI and Meshtastic

[Text summary of the fifth workshop.](https://highdesertinstitute.org/blog/2025-04-16-opsec-ai-meshtastic/)

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/z5k--VjGQjA?si=V5tZ3E881doqj-zA" title="YouTube video player" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>


## Build Lists!

- [Build List v0.1](/guilds/lorekeepers/cyberpony-express/build-list-v0.1)


## Useful Tools

- [Flash Your Firmware From The Web](https://flasher.meshtastic.org/) Requires chrome!
- [Plan Your Mesh](https://site.meshtastic.org/)


---

[← Back to Lorekeepers' Guild](/guilds/lorekeepers)  
[← Back to All Guilds](/guilds/)  
[← Back to Home](/)
